---
title: Static Files and Templates
---

# Static Files

Pykari looks for static files in the `_static` subdirectory and copies all files with the extension `.css`, `.js`, `.jpg`, and `.png` to `_build/_static`. Edit the [configuration file](configuration.html) to use static files with other extensions.

# Templates

## Files

Pykari looks for HTML templates in the `_templates` directory. Pykari will automatically use the `default.html` template to render HTML pages unless a different template is specified in the metadata of the Markdown source file. For example, to use `_templates/great_design.html` as a template, include the following in the metadata:

```
---
title: Webpage with a Different Design
date: 2025-07-31
template: great_design
---
```

## Variables

When Pykari creates an HTML file, it extracts [metadata](markdown.html#metadata) from the frontmatter of the Markdown source file and replaces variables in the template with the corresponding values from the metadata. Pykari uses [Jinja][jinja] to render the templates; follow Jinja conventions to format your templates.

In addition to metadata fields, Pykari also automatically assigns values to two additional variables that can be used in HTML templates:

`BODY`
: Pykari converts the body of each Markdown file to HTML and assigns the body text to the variable `BODY`. Use `{{ BODY }}` in your Jinja template to indicate where the content of each Markdown file should appear in the HTML generated by Pykari.

`ROOT`
: Pykari constructs a relative path from the Markdown file to the source directory and assigns it to the variable `ROOT`. Use `{{ ROOT }}` for links to project pages in your templates. For example, to include a link to `dir/file.html` on all project pages, write the following in your template:

  ```html
  <a href="{{ ROOT }}/dir/file.html">File</a>
  ```

  When Pykari renders a file, such as `path/to/other/file.html`, it will replace `ROOT` with the relative path to the source directory (which will correspond to the relative path to the build directory in the generated HTML):

  ```html
  <a href="../../../dir/file.html">File</a>
  ```

## Titles

The `<h1>` tag is the highest section level on a page. It is recommended that you reserve this tag for the page title and that you use the `<h1>` tag and the `{{ title }}` expression in your HTML templates. For example:

```html
<body>
<h1 id="title">{{ title }}</h1>
{{ BODY }}
</body>
```

Refer to the [Pykari Markdown guide](markdown.html#headings) for additional information about titles and headings.

## Customization

Refer to the [guide to Pykari templates](../howto/howto-template.html) for details about how to create a custom template.

[jinja]: https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/

